community-roles.md, before:

<!-- see https://github.com/yzhang-gh/vscode-markdown/blob/master/README.md#table-of-contents -->
<!-- omit in toc -->
# Community Roles

This document outlines the different roles within the project, along with the responsibilities and privileges that come with them.
Roles are progressive, so each include responsibilities, requirements and definitions from the previous roles.

- [Roles](#roles)
  - [Community Member](#community-member)
  - [Project Member](#project-member)
  - [Maintainer](#maintainer)
  - [Oversight Committee](#oversight-committee)
- [Processes](#processes)
  - [Inactivity](#inactivity)
  - [Involuntary Removal](#involuntary-removal)
  - [Stepping Down/Emeritus Process](#stepping-downemeritus-process)
  - [Stepping Back Into a Role](#stepping-back-into-a-role)
  - [Contact](#contact)

## Roles

Most of the roles defined herein are defined by membership in a certain GitHub organization or team:

- [fluxcd org](https://github.com/fluxcd): The organization under which all of Flux's activity on GitHub is captured.
- [@fluxcd/flux2-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/flux2-maintainers): The team comprised of all maintainers of Flux v2 components.
- [@fluxcd/maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/maintainers): The team comprised of all maintainers of both, Flux v1 and Flux v2 components.
- [@fluxcd/oversight-committee](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/oversight-committee): The team comprised of all [Oversight Committee] members.

### Community Member

Community Members are all users who interact with the project.

This could be through Slack, GitHub discussions, joining public project meetings, etc.

**Responsibilities:**

- Must follow the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

### Project Member

Project Members are [Community Members][Community Member] who contribute directly to the project and add value to it.
This can be through code, documentation, taking part in bug scrubs, etc.

**Defined by:**

- [Triage role](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/repository-permission-levels-for-an-organization#repository-access-for-each-permission-level) on all `fluxcd` GitHub org repos
- [Membership](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-user-account/managing-your-membership-in-organizations/about-organization-membership) in the [fluxcd org](https://github.com/fluxcd)

**Requirements:**

- Have made multiple contributions to the project or community.
  Contribution may include, but is not limited to:
  - Authoring or reviewing PRs on GitHub
  - Filing or commenting on issues on GitHub
  - Contributing to project or community discussions (for example meetings, Slack, email discussion forums, Stack Overflow)
- Subscribed to the [flux-dev mailing list](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/join)
- Actively contributing to 1 or more `fluxcd` GitHub org repos
- Sponsored by 2 maintainers.
  **Note the following requirements for sponsors:**
  - Sponsors must have close interactions with the prospective member - for example code/design/proposal review, coordinating on issues, etc.
  - Sponsors must be from multiple companies to demonstrate integration across community
- [Open an issue against the **fluxcd/community** repo](https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/new)
  - Ensure your sponsors are @mentioned on the issue
  - Complete every item on the checklist

    ```markdown
    ### GitHub Username
    e.g. (at)example_user

    ### Requirements
    - [ ] I have reviewed the community membership guidelines in `community-roles.md`
    - [ ] I have subscribed to the cncf-flux-dev e-mail list [https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/join](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/join)
    - [ ] I am actively contributing to 1 or more `fluxcd` GitHub org repos (eg. Flux, Flagger)
    - [ ] I have two sponsors that meet the sponsor requirements listed in the community membership guidelines
    - [ ] I have spoken to my sponsors ahead of this application, and they have agreed to sponsor my application

    ### Sponsors
    - (at)sponsor-1
    - (at)sponsor-2

    ### List of contributions to the Flux project
    - PRs reviewed / authored
    - Discussions involved in & Issues responded to
    - Flux subprojects I am involved with (Flagger, Flux, Controllers)
    ```

  - Have your sponsoring maintainers reply confirmation of sponsorship: `+1`
  - Once your sponsors have responded, your request will be reviewed by a member of the Flux [Oversight Committee].
    Any missing information will be requested.

**Responsibilities and privileges:**

- Responsive to issues and PRs assigned to them
- Active owner of code they have contributed (unless ownership is explicitly transferred)
  - Code is well tested
  - Tests consistently pass
  - Addresses bugs or issues discovered after code is accepted
- Note: members who frequently contribute code are expected to proactively perform code reviews and work towards becoming a maintainer

### Maintainer

Maintainers are elected [Project Members][Project Member] who have shown significant and sustained contributions in a git repository.

**Defined by:** entry in MAINTAINERS file in a repo owned by the Flux project, and membership in the [@fluxcd/flux2-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/flux2-maintainers) [@fluxcd/maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/maintainers) GitHub team.

**Requirements:**

- Make a PR against the `MAINTAINERS` file for a `fluxcd` GitHub org repo. [Example PR](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/pull/584)
- @mention all the other current maintainers
- Have maintainers submit their vote by `+1`
- Once all maintainers in repo have `+1` the pr will be reviewed by a member of the Flux [Oversight Committee]

**flux2 maintainers:** Maintainership in the [flux2 MAINTAINERS file](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/blob/main/MAINTAINERS) trickles down to all other Flux 2-related repositories which means that mantainers mentioned there are also maintainers in all other repositories.

Once the above process has taken its course, make sure you

- Are added to the internal `#flux-maintainers` Slack channel
- Update <https://maintainers.cncf.io>
- Get somebody to ping [CNCF Service Desk](https://cncfservicedesk.atlassian.net/) to get you added as Flux maintainer
- Ping fellow maintainers to get added to Flux 1Password
- (Optional) Check if your [CNCF affiliation is up to date](https://github.com/cncf/gitdm#addingupdating-affiliation)

**Responsibilities and Privileges:**

The following apply to the part of the codebase for which one would be in a MAINTAINERS file:

- Enable and promote Flux community values
- Engage with end Users through appropriate communication channels
- Serve as a point of conflict resolution between Contributors to their git repository
- Maintain open collaboration with Contributors and other Maintainers
- Ask for help when unsure and step down considerately

### Oversight Committee

The Oversight Committee is responsible for the overall project, and anything not easily managed by the Maintainers of each git repository.

The committee drives the direction, values and governance of the overall project.

The committee is currently comprised of Flux Maintainers who have steered the project prior to the initial Governance document.

In future, Committee Members will come from a diverse background of companies and organizations.
Ensuring that oversight of the project is not controlled by one company or organization.

**Defined by:** entry in `OVERSIGHT.md` file in the fluxcd/community repo, and in  `@fluxcd/oversight-committee` GitHub team.

**Requirements:**

We aim to build out requirements for the Oversight Committee role during incubation.
See [fluxcd/community#106](https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/106).

**Responsibilities and Privileges:**

The following apply to all assets across the Flux org:

- Overseeing the project health and growth
- Maintaining the brand, mission, vision, values, and scope of the overall project
- Changes to licensing and intellectual property
- Administering access to all project assets
- Administering git repositories as needed
- Handling Code of Conduct violations
- Managing financial decisions
- Defining the scope of each git repository
- Resolving escalated decisions when Maintainers responsible are blocked

## Processes

### Inactivity
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details for how you measure inactivity for your project-->

It is important for contributors to be and stay active to set an example and show commitment to the project.
Inactivity is harmful to the project as it may lead to unexpected delays, contributor attrition, and a lost of trust in the project.

Inactivity is to be defined by the [Oversight Committee].

Consequences of being inactive include:

- Involuntary Removal
- Being moved to Emeritus status

### Involuntary Removal

Involuntary removal of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met.
This may include repeated pattern of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct.
This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Involuntary removal is handled by the [Oversight Committee].

### Stepping Down/Emeritus Process

If and when contributors' commitment levels change, contributors can consider stepping down (moving down a role) vs moving to emeritus status (completely stepping away from the project).

Please reach out to the [Oversight Committee] to discuss this process.

### Stepping Back Into a Role

If and when someone is available to step back into a previous contributor role, this is something that can be arranged and considered by the project [Oversight Committee].

Please reach out to the [Oversight Committee] to discuss this process.

### Contact

For inquiries, please reach out to: <cncf-flux-oversight-committee@lists.cncf.io>

### Examples of Decisions

- Project change: Moving Flagger under the Flux organisation was not a code or architectural change, but a big decision that impacted the Flux project and community, hence it was discussed in various [Flux Dev meetings](https://fluxcd.io/community/#meetings), before being put up at <https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/34> for a comment period of one month and when there were no objections, the decision was announced [here](https://fluxcd.io/blog/2021/01/january-2021-update/#flagger-moves-under-the-fluxcd-organization).
- Architectural change: introducing the RFC process itself was introduced as [an RFC](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/pull/2085). Here is a list of other architectural changes which fall under that category: <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/pulls?q=label%3Aarea%2FRFC+>.
- Application to become a member of the Flux project was filed as an issue under `fluxcd/community`: <https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/127> (a checklist of requirements, sponsors, list of contributions, and approval can be found in the issue - just follow [this process](#project-member)).

<!-- md links -->
[Community Member]: #community-member
[Project Member]: #project-member
[Maintainer]: #maintainer
[Oversight Committee]: #oversight-committee

Commit message:

move Oversight Committee responsibilities to Flux2 maintainers
Signed-off-by: Daniel Holbach <daniel@weave.works>

community-roles.md, after:

<!-- see https://github.com/yzhang-gh/vscode-markdown/blob/master/README.md#table-of-contents -->
<!-- omit in toc -->
# Community Roles

This document outlines the different roles within the project, along with the responsibilities and privileges that come with them.
Roles are progressive, so each include responsibilities, requirements and definitions from the previous roles.

- [Roles](#roles)
  - [Community Member](#community-member)
  - [Project Member](#project-member)
  - [Maintainer](#maintainer)
  - [flux2 maintainers](#flux2-maintainers)
- [Processes](#processes)
  - [Inactivity](#inactivity)
  - [Involuntary Removal](#involuntary-removal)
  - [Stepping Down/Emeritus Process](#stepping-downemeritus-process)
  - [Stepping Back Into a Role](#stepping-back-into-a-role)
  - [Contact](#contact)

## Roles

Most of the roles defined herein are defined by membership in a certain GitHub organization or team:

- [fluxcd org](https://github.com/fluxcd): The organization under which all of Flux's activity on GitHub is captured.
- [@fluxcd/flux2-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/flux2-maintainers): The team comprised of all maintainers of Flux v2 components.
- [@fluxcd/maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/maintainers): The team comprised of all maintainers of the various projects in the FluxCD organisation: Flux v1, Flux v2, Flagger, GitOps Toolkit, etc.

### Community Member

Community Members are all users who interact with the project.

This could be through Slack, GitHub discussions, joining public project meetings, etc.

**Responsibilities:**

- Must follow the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

### Project Member

Project Members are [Community Members][Community Member] who contribute directly to the project and add value to it.
This can be through code, documentation, taking part in bug scrubs, etc.

**Defined by:**

- [Triage role](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/repository-permission-levels-for-an-organization#repository-access-for-each-permission-level) on all `fluxcd` GitHub org repos
- [Membership](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-user-account/managing-your-membership-in-organizations/about-organization-membership) in the [fluxcd org](https://github.com/fluxcd)

**Requirements:**

- Have made multiple contributions to the project or community.
  Contribution may include, but is not limited to:
  - Authoring or reviewing PRs on GitHub
  - Filing or commenting on issues on GitHub
  - Contributing to project or community discussions (for example meetings, Slack, email discussion forums, Stack Overflow)
- Subscribed to the [flux-dev mailing list](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/join)
- Actively contributing to 1 or more `fluxcd` GitHub org repos
- Sponsored by 2 maintainers.
  **Note the following requirements for sponsors:**
  - Sponsors must have close interactions with the prospective member - for example code/design/proposal review, coordinating on issues, etc.
  - Sponsors must be from multiple companies to demonstrate integration across community
- [Open an issue against the **fluxcd/community** repo](https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/new)
  - Ensure your sponsors are @mentioned on the issue
  - Complete every item on the checklist

    ```markdown
    ### GitHub Username
    e.g. (at)example_user

    ### Requirements
    - [ ] I have reviewed the community membership guidelines in `community-roles.md`
    - [ ] I have subscribed to the cncf-flux-dev e-mail list [https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/join](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/join)
    - [ ] I am actively contributing to 1 or more `fluxcd` GitHub org repos (eg. Flux, Flagger)
    - [ ] I have two sponsors that meet the sponsor requirements listed in the community membership guidelines
    - [ ] I have spoken to my sponsors ahead of this application, and they have agreed to sponsor my application

    ### Sponsors
    - (at)sponsor-1
    - (at)sponsor-2

    ### List of contributions to the Flux project
    - PRs reviewed / authored
    - Discussions involved in & Issues responded to
    - Flux subprojects I am involved with (Flagger, Flux, Controllers)
    ```

  - Have your sponsoring maintainers reply confirmation of sponsorship: `+1`
  - Once your sponsors have responded, your request will be reviewed by a member of the [flux2-maintainers].
    Any missing information will be requested.

**Responsibilities and privileges:**

- Responsive to issues and PRs assigned to them
- Active owner of code they have contributed (unless ownership is explicitly transferred)
  - Code is well tested
  - Tests consistently pass
  - Addresses bugs or issues discovered after code is accepted
- Note: members who frequently contribute code are expected to proactively perform code reviews and work towards becoming a maintainer

### Maintainer

Maintainers are elected [Project Members][Project Member] who have shown significant and sustained contributions in a git repository.

**Defined by:** entry in MAINTAINERS file in a repo owned by the Flux project, and membership in the [@fluxcd/maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/teams/maintainers) GitHub team.

**Requirements:**

- Make a PR against the `MAINTAINERS` file for a `fluxcd` GitHub org repo. [Example PR](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/pull/584)
- @mention all the other current maintainers
- Have maintainers submit their vote by `+1`
- Once all maintainers in repo have `+1` the pr will be reviewed by a member of the [flux2-maintainers]

Once the above process has taken its course, make sure you

- Are added to the internal `#flux-maintainers` Slack channel
- Update <https://maintainers.cncf.io>
- Get somebody to ping [CNCF Service Desk](https://cncfservicedesk.atlassian.net/) to get you added as Flux maintainer
- Ping fellow maintainers to get added to Flux 1Password
- (Optional) Check if your [CNCF affiliation is up to date](https://github.com/cncf/gitdm#addingupdating-affiliation)

**Responsibilities and Privileges:**

The following apply to the part of the codebase for which one would be in a MAINTAINERS file:

- Enable and promote Flux community values
- Engage with end Users through appropriate communication channels
- Serve as a point of conflict resolution between Contributors to their git repository
- Maintain open collaboration with Contributors and other Maintainers
- Ask for help when unsure and step down considerately

### flux2 maintainers

Maintainership in the [flux2 MAINTAINERS file](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/blob/main/MAINTAINERS) trickles down to all other Flux 2-related repositories which means that mantainers mentioned there are also maintainers in all other repositories.

In addition to maintaining `flux2` and Flux 2-related repositories, this team serves as escalation point for the overall project, and anything not easily managed by the Maintainers of each git repository.

This team drives the direction, values and governance of the overall project.

It is important to us that its members come from a diverse background of companies and organizations.
Ensuring that oversight of the project is not controlled by one company or organization.

**Defined by:** entry in [flux2 MAINTAINERS file](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/blob/main/MAINTAINERS), and in the `@fluxcd/flux2-maintainers` GitHub team.

**Responsibilities and Privileges:**

The following apply to all assets across the Flux org:

- Overseeing the project health and growth
- Maintaining the brand, mission, vision, values, and scope of the overall project
- Changes to licensing and intellectual property
- Administering access to all project assets
- Administering git repositories as needed
- Handling Code of Conduct violations
- Managing financial decisions
- Defining the scope of each git repository
- Resolving escalated decisions when Maintainers responsible are blocked

## Processes

### Inactivity
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details for how you measure inactivity for your project-->

It is important for contributors to be and stay active to set an example and show commitment to the project.
Inactivity is harmful to the project as it may lead to unexpected delays, contributor attrition, and a lost of trust in the project.

Inactivity is to be defined by the [flux2 maintainers] team.

Consequences of being inactive include:

- Involuntary Removal
- Being moved to Emeritus status

### Involuntary Removal

Involuntary removal of a contributor happens when responsibilities and requirements aren't being met.
This may include repeated pattern of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct.
This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Involuntary removal is handled by the [flux2 maintainers] team.

### Stepping Down/Emeritus Process

If and when contributors' commitment levels change, contributors can consider stepping down (moving down a role) vs moving to emeritus status (completely stepping away from the project).

Please reach out to the [flux2 maintainers] team to discuss this process.

### Stepping Back Into a Role

If and when someone is available to step back into a previous contributor role, this is something that can be arranged and considered by the [flux2 maintainers] team.

Please reach out to the [flux2 maintainers] team to discuss this process.

### Contact

For inquiries, please reach out to: `@fluxcd/flux2-maintainers` on GitHub.

### Examples of Decisions

- Project change: Moving Flagger under the Flux organisation was not a code or architectural change, but a big decision that impacted the Flux project and community, hence it was discussed in various [Flux Dev meetings](https://fluxcd.io/community/#meetings), before being put up at <https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/34> for a comment period of one month and when there were no objections, the decision was announced [here](https://fluxcd.io/blog/2021/01/january-2021-update/#flagger-moves-under-the-fluxcd-organization).
- Architectural change: introducing the RFC process itself was introduced as [an RFC](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/pull/2085). Here is a list of other architectural changes which fall under that category: <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/pulls?q=label%3Aarea%2FRFC+>.
- Application to become a member of the Flux project was filed as an issue under `fluxcd/community`: <https://github.com/fluxcd/community/issues/127> (a checklist of requirements, sponsors, list of contributions, and approval can be found in the issue - just follow [this process](#project-member)).

<!-- md links -->
[Community Member]: #community-member
[Project Member]: #project-member
[Maintainer]: #maintainer
[flux2 maintainers]: #flux2-maintainers
