GOVERNANCE.md, before:

<!-- see https://github.com/yzhang-gh/vscode-markdown/blob/master/README.md#table-of-contents -->
<!-- omit in toc -->
# Flux Governance

This document <https://github.com/fluxcd/community/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md> defines the governance process for the Flux project and community.

- [Values](#values)
  - [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Roles in the Flux Community](#roles-in-the-flux-community)
- [Decision Making](#decision-making)
  - [Deciders](#deciders)
  - [Decision Guidelines](#decision-guidelines)
  - [Simple Majority Decisions](#simple-majority-decisions)
  - [Supermajority Decisions](#supermajority-decisions)
  - [Unanimity Decisions](#unanimity-decisions)
- [Proposal Process](#proposal-process)
- [Licenses and Copyright](#licenses-and-copyright)

## Values

- **Open:**
The Flux community strives to be open, accessible and welcoming to everyone.
Anyone may contribute, and contributions are available to all users according to open source values and licenses.
- **Transparent:**
Flux strives for transparency in all discussions, announcements, disclosures and decision making.
- **Unbiased:**
Flux strives to operate independently of specific partisan interests, and for decision making to fairly balance the wider community interests of its end users and contributors.

### Code of Conduct

The Flux community adheres to the CNCF Code of Conduct <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md>.

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting a _Flux_ [flux2 maintainers] member.

If no conclusion can be reached in meditation, such issues can be escalated to the CNCF mediator, Mishi Choudhary <mishi@linux.com>, in which case CNCF may choose to intervene.

## Roles in the Flux Community

See [community-roles.md]

## Decision Making

### Deciders

- Repository [Maintainers][Maintainer]: Decisions that affect only one git repository.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Decisions that are outside the scope of a single git repository.

### Decision Guidelines

- Decisions that warrant wider input should be made public by using the below guidelines in combination with the Proposal Process below.
- Whether or not wider input is required, the Flux community believes that the best decisions are reached through Consensus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_decision-making>.
- Most decisions start by seeking Lazy Consensus <https://communitymgt.wikia.com/wiki/Lazy_consensus>.
- If an objection is raised through the Lazy Consensus process, Deciders work together to seek an agreeable solution.
- If Consensus can not be reached, but a decision must be made, the next step is try to attempt to agree that a vote should be called.
  This is important, as it gives dissenting views a chance to request more information or raise further points.
  If Deciders are the [flux2 maintainers], part of that responsibility is the final point of escalation, so agreeing to a vote is assumed if timeline doesn't allow the consensus process to continue.
- If Deciders are Repository [Maintainers][Maintainer], and they can't agree on calling a vote, they may escalate to the [flux2 maintainers].
  This should only be done at this stage if:
  1. An unmovable deadline is threatened by continuing the Consensus process; or
  2. A Decider feels there is unreasonable blocking of both reaching Consensus and agreeing to a vote.
      This should be rare, due to the social cost of discontinuing the Consensus process for this reason.
      Most decisions should wait for the above process to take its course.
- If Deciders agree to a vote, the default is a Simple Majority.
- However, there are cases that require stronger voting – Supermajority or Unanimity – specified below:

### Simple Majority Decisions

If a vote is called, the default is a Simple Majority Vote <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majority>.

### Supermajority Decisions

If a vote is called, the following decisions require a Supermajority Vote <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supermajority>.

- [flux2 maintainers]: Enforcing a Code of Conduct violation by a community member.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Licensing and intellectual property changes.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Material changes to the Governance document.
  - Note: editorial changes to governance may be made by lazy consensus, unless challenged.
    These are changes which fix spelling or grammar, update work affiliation or similar, update style or reflect an outside and obvious reality.
    They do not change the intention or meaning of anything in this document.

### Unanimity Decisions

If a vote is called, the following decision require Unanimity <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unanimity>.

- Repository [Maintainers][Maintainer]: Electing new Maintainers of the same repository.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Electing new Committee members.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Removing a Repository Maintainer or Committee member for any reason other than inactivity.

## Proposal Process

- Code changes should go through the pull request process, where the idea and implementation details can be publicly discussed with [Maintainers][Maintainer], other contributors, and end users.
  Pull requests should only be merged after receiving GitHub approval from at least one Maintainer who is not the pull request author.
- For architectural changes to Flux, please use the [RFC process](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs).  
  Note that Flux v2 uses GitHub discussions for (non-architectural) proposals in the `fluxcd/flux2` Git repository <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/discussions?discussions_q=category%3AProposals>.
- Non-code changes should be proposed as GitHub issues.
  If unclear which Git repository to create the issue in, default to the community repository <https://github.com/fluxcd/community>.
- All proposals should be discussed publicly in an appropriate GitHub issue or pull request.
- If a Maintainer of an affected git repository feels feedback from specific people is warranted they will @mention those users or teams to request feedback.
- Proposals may also be added to the Flux Dev weekly meetings agenda, as a good avenue for making progress on a decision <https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/calendar>.

## Licenses and Copyright

- Apache 2.0 is required for all Git repositories.
- Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) commit signoff is required for all new code contributions.

Links to relevant CNCF documentation:

- <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/charter.md#11-ip-policy>
- <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/allowed-third-party-license-policy.md#approved-licenses-for-allowlist>
- <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/copyright-notices.md#copyright-notices>

<!-- md links -->
[Maintainer]: community-roles.md#maintainer
[flux2 maintainers]: community-roles.md#flux2-maintainers
[community-roles.md]: community-roles.md

Commit message:

define community processes centrally
Signed-off-by: Daniel Holbach <daniel@weave.works>

GOVERNANCE.md, after:

<!-- see https://github.com/yzhang-gh/vscode-markdown/blob/master/README.md#table-of-contents -->
<!-- omit in toc -->
# Flux Governance

This document <https://github.com/fluxcd/community/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md> defines the governance process for the Flux project and community.

- [Values](#values)
  - [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Roles and Process in the Flux Community](#roles-and-process-in-the-flux-community)
- [Decision Making](#decision-making)
  - [Deciders](#deciders)
  - [Decision Guidelines](#decision-guidelines)
  - [Simple Majority Decisions](#simple-majority-decisions)
  - [Supermajority Decisions](#supermajority-decisions)
  - [Unanimity Decisions](#unanimity-decisions)
- [Licenses and Copyright](#licenses-and-copyright)

## Values

- **Open:**
The Flux community strives to be open, accessible and welcoming to everyone.
Anyone may contribute, and contributions are available to all users according to open source values and licenses.
- **Transparent:**
Flux strives for transparency in all discussions, announcements, disclosures and decision making.
- **Unbiased:**
Flux strives to operate independently of specific partisan interests, and for decision making to fairly balance the wider community interests of its end users and contributors.

### Code of Conduct

The Flux community adheres to the CNCF Code of Conduct <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md>.

## Roles and Process in the Flux Community

See

- [community-roles.md] for the definition of roles in our community and
- [PROCESS.md] to understand how to interact with Flux Community processes

## Decision Making

### Deciders

- Repository [Maintainers][Maintainer]: Decisions that affect only one git repository.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Decisions that are outside the scope of a single git repository.

### Decision Guidelines

- Decisions that warrant wider input should be made public by using the below guidelines in combination with the [Proposal Process](PROCESS.md#proposal-process).
- Whether or not wider input is required, the Flux community believes that the best decisions are reached through Consensus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_decision-making>.
- Most decisions start by seeking Lazy Consensus <https://communitymgt.wikia.com/wiki/Lazy_consensus>.
- If an objection is raised through the Lazy Consensus process, Deciders work together to seek an agreeable solution.
- If Consensus can not be reached, but a decision must be made, the next step is try to attempt to agree that a vote should be called.
  This is important, as it gives dissenting views a chance to request more information or raise further points.
  If Deciders are the [flux2 maintainers], part of that responsibility is the final point of escalation, so agreeing to a vote is assumed if timeline doesn't allow the consensus process to continue.
- If Deciders are Repository [Maintainers][Maintainer], and they can't agree on calling a vote, they may escalate to the [flux2 maintainers].
  This should only be done at this stage if:
  1. An unmovable deadline is threatened by continuing the Consensus process; or
  2. A Decider feels there is unreasonable blocking of both reaching Consensus and agreeing to a vote.
      This should be rare, due to the social cost of discontinuing the Consensus process for this reason.
      Most decisions should wait for the above process to take its course.
- If Deciders agree to a vote, the default is a Simple Majority.
- However, there are cases that require stronger voting – Supermajority or Unanimity – specified below:

### Simple Majority Decisions

If a vote is called, the default is a Simple Majority Vote <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majority>.

### Supermajority Decisions

If a vote is called, the following decisions require a Supermajority Vote <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supermajority>.

- [flux2 maintainers]: Enforcing a Code of Conduct violation by a community member.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Licensing and intellectual property changes.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Material changes to the Governance document.
  - Note: editorial changes to governance may be made by lazy consensus, unless challenged.
    These are changes which fix spelling or grammar, update work affiliation or similar, update style or reflect an outside and obvious reality.
    They do not change the intention or meaning of anything in this document.

### Unanimity Decisions

If a vote is called, the following decision require Unanimity <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unanimity>.

- Repository [Maintainers][Maintainer]: Electing new Maintainers of the same repository.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Electing new Committee members.
- [flux2 maintainers]: Removing a Repository Maintainer or Committee member for any reason other than inactivity.

## Licenses and Copyright

- Apache 2.0 is required for all Git repositories.
- Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) commit signoff is required for all new code contributions.

Links to relevant CNCF documentation:

- <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/charter.md#11-ip-policy>
- <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/allowed-third-party-license-policy.md#approved-licenses-for-allowlist>
- <https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/copyright-notices.md#copyright-notices>

<!-- md links -->
[Maintainer]: community-roles.md#maintainer
[flux2 maintainers]: community-roles.md#flux2-maintainers
[community-roles.md]: community-roles.md
