README.md, before:

# Joining the Flux community

We want the [Flux project](https://github.com/fluxcd) to be the vendor-neutral home for GitOps in a Cloud Native world.

Started 2016 to automate deployments at Weaveworks, the project has grown dramatically since then. Especially since the planning of Flux v2 and GitOps Toolkit SDK it was clearer that the scope became more ambitious and that the Flux project has become the home for the Flux family of projects, all solving specific GitOps needs.

We also want our community to be diverse, helpful, collaborative and a fun place to be, so we would love to have you join us!

## Getting involved

### Finding your interest

To get started, it's important you find out which parts of Flux you are interested in first.

Currently stable:

- Flux v1: <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux>
- As a Helm user: <https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-operator> (v1)
- If you are interested in progressive delivery, e.g. blue-green testing, etc. <https://github.com/fluxcd/flagger>

V2 - soon to replace all v1 projects:

- Flux v2: <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2>
- As a Helm user: <https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-controller>

And there is loads more under <https://github.com/fluxcd>, we all work on this as a community together.

### Joining the community

All the projects have docs to help you get started, so a first step is obviously using the projects and getting some first-hand experience. Afterwards you can help out on Slack answering questions, maybe extend the docs or fix some small issues.

### Teams

Up until we started defining governance the Flux project had implicit teams only - if at all. In reality we all were one big team. Of course every contributing member of the community had their own area of interest and motivation.

We are in the process of slowly formalising some team structures apart from "interest in one or more given sub-project(s)". There currently are

- The [Oversight committee](GOVERNANCE.md#oversight-committee)
- The [Security team](SECURITY.md)
- The [Community team](COMMUNITY.md)

All projects and teams are open to contributors and every part of the Flux project appreciates your help and consideration. Check out the links above to learn more about the team in question.

### Meetings

We run regular meetings and discuss things there. We are very happy if new users, contributors and developers join and we can put names to faces.

- **Meeting times**
  - "early" meeting: Uneven weeks: Wed, 12:00 UTC
  - "late" meeting: Even weeks: Thu, 15:00 UTC
- **Agenda and minutes**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l_M0om0qUEN_NNiGgpqJ2tvsF2iioHkaARDeh6b70B0/edit>
- **Flux calendar:** <https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/calendar>
- **Video recordings:** <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbx4FZ4kOKntmgJqaT-iJ8tn4xat150yL>

We are looking forward to seeing you there.

#### Subscribing to the flux-dev calendar

To add the meetings to your e.g. Google calendar

1. visit the [Flux calendar](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/calendar)
1. click on "Subscribe to Calendar" at the very bottom of the page
1. copy the iCalendar URL
1. open e.g. your Google calendar
1. find the "add calendar" option
1. choose "add by URL"
1. paste iCalendar URL (ends with `.ics`)
1. done

## Talks

### Upcoming

- 06 Apr 2021 - [Flux v2 on Azure with Leigh Capili](https://www.meetup.com/GitOps-Community/events/276674768/)
- 19 Apr 2021 - [Setting Up Notifications, Alerts, & Webhooks with Alison Dowdney](https://www.meetup.com/GitOps-Community/events/276582835/)
- 29 Apr 2021 - [Doing GitOps for multicloud resource management using Crossplane and Flux2 (at Conf42: Cloud Native 2021)](https://www.conf42.com/Cloud_Native_2021_Leonardo_Murillo_gitops_multicloud_crossplane_flux2)
- 09-10 Jun 2021 - [GitOps Days 2021](https://www.gitopsdays.com)

### Featured

- 25 Mar 2021 - [CNCF Webinar: Flux is Incubating + The Road Ahead](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=va1iho7O4WQ)
- 22 Mar 2021 - [GitOps Hands-On Patterns for Helm Users with Scott Rigby](https://youtu.be/ljouUBPtnuI)
- 08 Mar 2021 - [Migrating from Flux v1 to Flux v2 with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/vwvTwLQhXVI)
- 25 Feb 2021 - [Dallas Kubernetes Meetup: Introduction to GitOps with Flux & Flagger](https://youtu.be/7E1aFQKNE40)
- 22 Feb 2021 - [Manage Kubernetes Secrets with Mozilla SOPS & Flux](https://youtu.be/8pbdXAd-F44)
- 08 Feb 2021 - [Fluxv2 Image Update Automation Sneak Peak with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/WnVTY9KQXE0)
- 25 Jan 2021 - [GitOps Core Concepts & How to Teach Your Teams with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/nWN1F6bsuqc)
- 11 Jan 2021 - [Helm + GitOps = ⚡️⚡️⚡️ with Scott Rigby](https://youtu.be/YG8jMFrYQvM)
- 14 Dec 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux and Flagger (GitOps Hands-On) with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/cB7iXeNLteE)
- 30 Nov 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux 2 - Part 3 with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/N_K5g7o9JKg)
- 24 Nov 2020 - [Flux CD v2 with GitOps Toolkit - Kubernetes Deployment and Sync Mechanism](https://youtu.be/R6OeIgb7lUI)
- 13 Nov 2020 - [The evolution of Flux with Stefan Prodan at GitOps Days EMEA](https://youtu.be/nGLpUCPX8JE)
- 13 Nov 2020 - [Helm Users! What Flux 2 can do for you! by Scott Rigby at GitOps Days EMEA](https://youtu.be/JcKUawSQfQ0)
- 12 Nov 2020 - [THe Power of GitOps with Flux v2: Managing Remote Clusters (CAPI demo) with Leigh Capili at GitOps Days EMEA](https://youtu.be/7W27tAv7Tvs)
- 05 Nov 2020 - Philip Laine and Stefan Prodan will speak about [Flux v2 at Cloud Native Göteborg](https://www.meetup.com/TheCloudNativeGbg/events/273413291/)
- 02 Nov 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux & GitOps Toolkit - Part 2](https://youtu.be/fC2YCxQRUwU)
- 28 Oct 2020 - [The Kubelist Podcast: Flux with Michael Bridgen](https://www.heavybit.com/library/podcasts/the-kubelist-podcast/ep-5-flux-with-michael-bridgen-of-weaveworks/)
- 19 Oct 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux & GitOps Toolkit - Part 1](https://youtu.be/0v5bjysXTL8)
- 12 Oct 2020 - [Rawkode Live: Introduction to GitOps Toolkit with Stefan Prodan](https://youtu.be/HqTzuOBP0eY)
- 04 Sep 2020 - [KubeCon/CloudNativeCon Europe: The road to Flux v2 and Progressive Delivery with Stefan Prodan & Hidde Beydals](https://youtu.be/8v94nUkXsxU)
- 25 Jun 2020 - [Cloud Native Nordics: Introduction to GitOps & GitOps Toolkit with Alexis Richardson & Stefan Prodan](https://youtu.be/qQBtSkgl7tI)
- 07 May 2020 - [GitOps Days - Community Special: GitOps Toolkit Experimentation with Stefan Prodan](https://youtu.be/WHzxunv4DKk?t=6521)

## Communication

- Join our upcoming [dev meetings](#meetings)
- Talk to us in the #flux channel on [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io/)
- Join the [planning discussions](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/discussions)
- And if you are completely new to Flux and the GitOps Toolkit, take a look at our [Get Started guide](https://toolkit.fluxcd.io/get-started/) and give us feedback
- To be part of the conversation about Flux's development, [join the flux-dev mailing list](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev).
- Social media: Follow [Flux on Twitter](https://twitter.com/fluxcd), join the discussion in the [Flux LinkedIn group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/8985374/).
- Check out [how to contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Rules

The Flux community is governed by the [governance document](GOVERNANCE.md). We as a community follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

Add 28 Apr Cloud Native Live Stream with Leigh
Signed-off-by: Stacey Potter <50154848+staceypotter@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Joining the Flux community

We want the [Flux project](https://github.com/fluxcd) to be the vendor-neutral home for GitOps in a Cloud Native world.

Started 2016 to automate deployments at Weaveworks, the project has grown dramatically since then. Especially since the planning of Flux v2 and GitOps Toolkit SDK it was clearer that the scope became more ambitious and that the Flux project has become the home for the Flux family of projects, all solving specific GitOps needs.

We also want our community to be diverse, helpful, collaborative and a fun place to be, so we would love to have you join us!

## Getting involved

### Finding your interest

To get started, it's important you find out which parts of Flux you are interested in first.

Currently stable:

- Flux v1: <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux>
- As a Helm user: <https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-operator> (v1)
- If you are interested in progressive delivery, e.g. blue-green testing, etc. <https://github.com/fluxcd/flagger>

V2 - soon to replace all v1 projects:

- Flux v2: <https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2>
- As a Helm user: <https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-controller>

And there is loads more under <https://github.com/fluxcd>, we all work on this as a community together.

### Joining the community

All the projects have docs to help you get started, so a first step is obviously using the projects and getting some first-hand experience. Afterwards you can help out on Slack answering questions, maybe extend the docs or fix some small issues.

### Teams

Up until we started defining governance the Flux project had implicit teams only - if at all. In reality we all were one big team. Of course every contributing member of the community had their own area of interest and motivation.

We are in the process of slowly formalising some team structures apart from "interest in one or more given sub-project(s)". There currently are

- The [Oversight committee](GOVERNANCE.md#oversight-committee)
- The [Security team](SECURITY.md)
- The [Community team](COMMUNITY.md)

All projects and teams are open to contributors and every part of the Flux project appreciates your help and consideration. Check out the links above to learn more about the team in question.

### Meetings

We run regular meetings and discuss things there. We are very happy if new users, contributors and developers join and we can put names to faces.

- **Meeting times**
  - "early" meeting: Uneven weeks: Wed, 12:00 UTC
  - "late" meeting: Even weeks: Thu, 15:00 UTC
- **Agenda and minutes**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l_M0om0qUEN_NNiGgpqJ2tvsF2iioHkaARDeh6b70B0/edit>
- **Flux calendar:** <https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/calendar>
- **Video recordings:** <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbx4FZ4kOKntmgJqaT-iJ8tn4xat150yL>

We are looking forward to seeing you there.

#### Subscribing to the flux-dev calendar

To add the meetings to your e.g. Google calendar

1. visit the [Flux calendar](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev/calendar)
1. click on "Subscribe to Calendar" at the very bottom of the page
1. copy the iCalendar URL
1. open e.g. your Google calendar
1. find the "add calendar" option
1. choose "add by URL"
1. paste iCalendar URL (ends with `.ics`)
1. done

## Talks

### Upcoming

- 06 Apr 2021 - [Flux v2 on Azure with Leigh Capili](https://www.meetup.com/GitOps-Community/events/276674768/)
- 19 Apr 2021 - [Setting Up Notifications, Alerts, & Webhooks with Alison Dowdney](https://www.meetup.com/GitOps-Community/events/276582835/)
- 28 Apr 2021 - [CNCF Cloud Native Live: Migrating from Flux v1 to Flux v2](https://www.cncf.io/webinars/cloud-native-live-migrating-from-flux-v1-to-flux-v2/)
- 29 Apr 2021 - [Doing GitOps for multicloud resource management using Crossplane and Flux2 (at Conf42: Cloud Native 2021)](https://www.conf42.com/Cloud_Native_2021_Leonardo_Murillo_gitops_multicloud_crossplane_flux2)
- 09-10 Jun 2021 - [GitOps Days 2021](https://www.gitopsdays.com)

### Featured

- 25 Mar 2021 - [CNCF Webinar: Flux is Incubating + The Road Ahead](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=va1iho7O4WQ)
- 22 Mar 2021 - [GitOps Hands-On Patterns for Helm Users with Scott Rigby](https://youtu.be/ljouUBPtnuI)
- 08 Mar 2021 - [Migrating from Flux v1 to Flux v2 with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/vwvTwLQhXVI)
- 25 Feb 2021 - [Dallas Kubernetes Meetup: Introduction to GitOps with Flux & Flagger](https://youtu.be/7E1aFQKNE40)
- 22 Feb 2021 - [Manage Kubernetes Secrets with Mozilla SOPS & Flux](https://youtu.be/8pbdXAd-F44)
- 08 Feb 2021 - [Fluxv2 Image Update Automation Sneak Peak with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/WnVTY9KQXE0)
- 25 Jan 2021 - [GitOps Core Concepts & How to Teach Your Teams with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/nWN1F6bsuqc)
- 11 Jan 2021 - [Helm + GitOps = ⚡️⚡️⚡️ with Scott Rigby](https://youtu.be/YG8jMFrYQvM)
- 14 Dec 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux and Flagger (GitOps Hands-On) with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/cB7iXeNLteE)
- 30 Nov 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux 2 - Part 3 with Leigh Capili](https://youtu.be/N_K5g7o9JKg)
- 24 Nov 2020 - [Flux CD v2 with GitOps Toolkit - Kubernetes Deployment and Sync Mechanism](https://youtu.be/R6OeIgb7lUI)
- 13 Nov 2020 - [The evolution of Flux with Stefan Prodan at GitOps Days EMEA](https://youtu.be/nGLpUCPX8JE)
- 13 Nov 2020 - [Helm Users! What Flux 2 can do for you! by Scott Rigby at GitOps Days EMEA](https://youtu.be/JcKUawSQfQ0)
- 12 Nov 2020 - [THe Power of GitOps with Flux v2: Managing Remote Clusters (CAPI demo) with Leigh Capili at GitOps Days EMEA](https://youtu.be/7W27tAv7Tvs)
- 05 Nov 2020 - Philip Laine and Stefan Prodan will speak about [Flux v2 at Cloud Native Göteborg](https://www.meetup.com/TheCloudNativeGbg/events/273413291/)
- 02 Nov 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux & GitOps Toolkit - Part 2](https://youtu.be/fC2YCxQRUwU)
- 28 Oct 2020 - [The Kubelist Podcast: Flux with Michael Bridgen](https://www.heavybit.com/library/podcasts/the-kubelist-podcast/ep-5-flux-with-michael-bridgen-of-weaveworks/)
- 19 Oct 2020 - [The Power of GitOps with Flux & GitOps Toolkit - Part 1](https://youtu.be/0v5bjysXTL8)
- 12 Oct 2020 - [Rawkode Live: Introduction to GitOps Toolkit with Stefan Prodan](https://youtu.be/HqTzuOBP0eY)
- 04 Sep 2020 - [KubeCon/CloudNativeCon Europe: The road to Flux v2 and Progressive Delivery with Stefan Prodan & Hidde Beydals](https://youtu.be/8v94nUkXsxU)
- 25 Jun 2020 - [Cloud Native Nordics: Introduction to GitOps & GitOps Toolkit with Alexis Richardson & Stefan Prodan](https://youtu.be/qQBtSkgl7tI)
- 07 May 2020 - [GitOps Days - Community Special: GitOps Toolkit Experimentation with Stefan Prodan](https://youtu.be/WHzxunv4DKk?t=6521)

## Communication

- Join our upcoming [dev meetings](#meetings)
- Talk to us in the #flux channel on [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io/)
- Join the [planning discussions](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/discussions)
- And if you are completely new to Flux and the GitOps Toolkit, take a look at our [Get Started guide](https://toolkit.fluxcd.io/get-started/) and give us feedback
- To be part of the conversation about Flux's development, [join the flux-dev mailing list](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-flux-dev).
- Social media: Follow [Flux on Twitter](https://twitter.com/fluxcd), join the discussion in the [Flux LinkedIn group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/8985374/).
- Check out [how to contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Rules

The Flux community is governed by the [governance document](GOVERNANCE.md). We as a community follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
