# Sponsorship

An obvious way to contribute to the Flux project is to spend time on
things that need to be done. But not everyone can set aside time that
way as an individual, or commit team members' time as an organisation.

We would like to recognise contributions of money and material (e.g.,
cloud platform credits), whether it is directly to the project or
through a sponsorship program. And we would like to let people know
there are ways to support the Flux project other than devoting time
and effort directly.

This document describes how the sponsorship part of that works.

A sponsorship program is a way for organisations to contribute money
(or a near equivalent, e.g., cloud platform credits) to help the Flux
project. The organisers of the program use the money to pay for things
that directly benefit the Flux project, for instance paying employees
that work as Flux maintainers.

The Flux project does not run its own sponsorship program, but other
people can, and we vet those who wish to be recognised. The programs
are listed on the Flux website, and sponsors are recognised on the
website amongst other kinds of contributions.

## Recognition of sponsorships

The Flux website shows contributions made via a sponsorship
program. The Flux maintainers agree a reasonable wording with the
organisers of a sponsorship program. For example, a program might have
different levels of contributions ("gold", "silver", "bronze"), and to
recognise larger sponsorships, the program organisers would want the
level to be mentioned.

The maintenance of active sponsorships is done through pull requests
to the Flux website repository. It's up to sponsorship program
organisers to make sure their sponsors are represented accurately.

## Sponsorship programs

It's important to establish trust between the Flux community and the
organisers of a sponsorship program. Mainly, we need to check that
sponsors' money will be put to the benefit of the project.

There is an initial exchange in which the program organisers and the
Flux maintainers agree what benefits are being provided and how
sponsors shall be recognised. This is reviewed between the Flux
maintainers and program organisers every half a year, to check it is
still accurate.

In the spirit of being generous with our gratitude, we assume good
faith in how sponsorship funds are spent. In any case, we would expect
programs to be accountable to their sponsors, who will require their
own assurances that their money is put to good use.

## What can and cannot be a benefit of sponsorship

With respect to the Flux project itself, sponsorship does not confer
anything outside these:

 - recognition on the website
 - social capital of being able to mention you are a sponsor

In particular, the Flux project does not grant sponsors any elevated
status in decision-making, and does not guarantee extra attention to
e.g., proposed features from sponsors. Sponsorship programs can of
course grant benefits that are in the power of the organisers to give,
like support from their own employees.
